my sling is editorial explicit material
briefcase show lava stereo flow fill me
i made an earlier video asking not at
all facetiously
not at all insincerely not joking around
what is the point
of democracy and in this video we are
asking
with equal sincerity what is the point
of immigration not because i'm throwing
up my hands and behaving
as if there is no point whatsoever but
because so many people
presuppose that having open doors
for infinite immigration and incredibly
generous refugee policy
is an unquestioned and unquestionable
good
in and of itself without ever
establishing
what is it good for
[Music]
in politics in ethics and in philosophy
some things are genuinely
authentically difficult to understand
and it's important that we have
the patience and compassion necessary
when
examining those issues discussing them
debating them
with our fellow human creatures
some things are not complex are not
difficult to understand at all
but they're unfamiliar
in this video we're dealing with a
question that is
both unfamiliar and
excites a lot of short-term emotional
reactions that people have difficulty
overcoming
most people have adopted one extreme
position
or another on this issue without ever
taking an interest
in the facts the consequences or even
what the options are
they feel that their own sense of moral
superiority
is invested in one position or another
on this political issue
you might say their sense of self-esteem
and self-worth
is already attached to a commitment
to a particular solution before they
have even examined
the problem this is a map
of southeast asia you could
say that southeast asia has 600 million
people
could be more could be less depending on
where you set
the boundaries hundreds and hundreds of
millions
everyone needs healthcare
when you look at this map do you think
each of these countries has hospitals
and surgeons and medical doctors
of equal quality if you
were doing humanitarian work in cambodia
or laos
and you suddenly needed really serious
medical attention
you were looking at this map yourself i
i don't know how much or how little
money you've got
or what your health insurance is going
to cover
you might start to question where would
you like to go
to receive health care all right
healthcare
tourism is a real factor in the western
world
in the eastern world in the northern
world and in the southern world
okay healthcare tourism dental tourism
people going on vacation to get their
dental work done and
healthcare migration is a real factor
healthcare refugees are a real factor
now i'm not going to ask in any depth or
complexity which one of these countries
has the best healthcare and which one
has the worst
but you might be from myanmar or
cambodia
or indonesia and you might want to
migrate
to japan in order to have access to
better quality healthcare
if you could you might want to migrate
to
singapore to have access to better
quality healthcare
are we going to begin this discussion
with the
deep-seated assumption that this is a
moral right
this is an entitlement that anyone who
opposes
the free movement of health care
refugees
of health care migrants is someone who's
opposed to
human rights the progress of
civilization
someone who doesn't care if the poor
struggle and die and suffer
let's let's take a
full life cycle centuries-long
perspective on this there is
no technology that exists in japan
that is unavailable in myanmar cambodia
or indonesia the vast majority of the
technology
that matters to provide healthcare
was transmitted and published in
textbooks
at least 20 years ago much of it
50 years ago right
there is no secret for what to do with a
broken arm
there's no secret for what to do with
delivering a baby
when a woman is in labor and gonna give
birth nevertheless
if you found yourself with a broken arm
or nine months pregnant in cambodia you
might start becoming very alarmed indeed
you might become very much afraid that
you're in a place where it's not safe
to go to a doctor or hospital have your
broken arm looked after or not safe to
give birth there and you might start
looking at your options right
many of these things technologically
we're not talking about
we're not talking about assembling
fighter jets right
it's possible my own country canada is
probably never
going to be a center of aeronautics of
making fighter jets
right some technologies are really
advanced and really equal this is not
like
cell phones this is not like circuit
boards canada is probably never going to
do
any of those things but canada can have
decent healthcare
the nature of that technology can be
shared and can be implemented
everywhere by everyone in any language
i think already 20 years ago the
textbooks for all of these languages
even cambodian even laosha the
information was there
right the solution to the problem of
health care in southeast asia
cannot possibly be healthcare refugees
or healthcare tourism okay the solution
must be that each and every one of these
countries and within those countries
each and every one of these cities
develops the capacity to deliver high
quality health care
to their own people in their own
language period
it's not a solution for anyone
to insist that it's your human right to
run away
and get surgery in japan or run away and
give birth and deliver a baby in
singapore
just because it's more convenient for
you right now right we need to have a
commitment
as individuals as members of society as
a country
and as a planet to build up the capacity
to deliver health care
locally everywhere
democracy it's very much the same thing
democracy is a technology that
fundamentally hasn't changed
in two thousand years okay
everything you need to know to run a
democracy
it already exists in myanmar it already
exists indonesia
it's a problem of implementation people
need democracy
they need freedom of speech in much the
same way that they need health care
but the question is why would you say
it's a morally good thing
to encourage people to run away run away
to japan
run away to singapore instead of
building the capacity for democracy
building the institutions of democracy
building the reality of democracy
in your own country one one country at a
time
one city at a time everywhere
locally in your own language we need
democracy
we don't need to evacuate people
so they can have democracy elsewhere i
made an earlier video
asking not at all facetiously not at all
insincerely
not joking around what is the point of
democracy
and in this video we are asking with
equal sincerity
what is the point of immigration
not because i'm throwing up my hands and
behaving as if there is no point
whatsoever
but because so many people presuppose
that having open doors for infinite
immigration
and incredibly generous refugee policy
is an
unquestioned and unquestionable good in
and of itself
without ever establishing what is it
good for i have a letter here from a
supporter on patreon
he opens by saying mr mazard i didn't
really want to reply
to any particular argument in your post
but to the general
spirit of it i wanted to point out that
anti-migration
is likely an ethical issue of
significance
but most take a right to restrict any
kind of migration
for any reason for granted
free migration may be considered in a
similar way
to veganism it means just as an abstract
ethical argument
quote the question of immigration is
surely underemphasized in contemporary
philosophy given its human importance
literally millions of lives are affected
in a serious and long-term manner
by immigration restrictions were these
restrictions lifted
millions of people would see greatly
expanded opportunities and would take
the chance
to drastically alter their lives for the
better this makes immigration law
a strong candidate for the most harmful
body of law
in america today so he says as a
footnote
english is not his first language and
it's a little bit difficult and thus
also i have kind of corrected the
grammar and changed the wording a little
bit
in reading this out loud as you may have
noticed on screen
okay the question i
posed in my earlier video and i was
slightly miffed
that this writer on patreon just
completely disregarded it
question posed was if you have
20 million people leaving myanmar
to go and live in thailand and maybe you
have another 2 million from laos
and maybe 5 million from cambodia i
don't know
10 20 50 million from indonesia right
if you have tens of millions of people
relocating to thailand
from all of these other countries that
have
a lower quality of government a lower
quality
of democracy and they're moving to
thailand because they can have a higher
quality of life
yes but because they can have democracy
freedom of speech
etc okay in what sense
is that good who
is that good for
now in my first video i think i gave a
perfectly eloquent voice to the fact
that this will not be good for the
countries
that are being abandoned it will not be
good
for the countries they are fleeing from
all right if 20 million people who want
democracy
get up and leave myanmar
there's an opportunity cost here and
there's something really wonderful
and really positive that can be
accomplished in myanmar right now
by 20 million people who are willing to
stay and
fight and die for a better
democratic future in myanmar i can say
the same thing about health care
right now short term let's say there are
20 million people in myanmar
who have various health conditions high
blood pressure
heart attack they're going to give birth
to a baby they got a broken arm
let's say there are 20 million people in
myanmar who would really benefit
from just relocating to thailand if we
just grant them thai citizenship
they have access to thailand's
healthcare system instead of myanmar's
healthcare system oh well that seems
like a great boon for humanity
if you are just looking at a single
stage of analysis
right but without even getting into how
bad this is for thailand
i was making the argument it's bad for
myanmar it's bad for the countries
that are being abandoned
if all of the homosexuals who are
quite genuinely oppressed in
muslim-majority countries
apply for refugee status in canada
who is going to fight for gay rights in
those muslim majority countries
if all of the atheists
abandon all of the muslim majority
countries around the world
indonesia saudi arabia or whatever which
is happening you can look them up
on youtube you can watch youtube videos
from atheists who applied for refugee
status
because they feel i believe correctly
that they are being persecuted
whether it is in pakistan saudi arabia
whatever the muslim majority country is
okay if all of the atheists and all of
the homosexuals
and all of the distant intellectuals if
they all
apply for and receive refugee status in
canada
what is the future of saudi arabia going
to be what is the future of pakistan
going to be
right who's going gonna fight for you me
no i'm not i've i've lived in cambodia i
did humanitarian with cambodia
i'm not fighting like as much interest
as i might have
as an armchair intellectual in cambodia
and in myanmar
right now right how much more than a
google search
am i really willing to do for the future
of myanmar any of you sitting on the
couch
can ask yourselves that same question
and this is where it gets even more
interesting is if we flip it around
and start asking about thailand or we
start asking about canada
if we start asking about the destination
countries because
as little as i care about the future of
cambodia
myanmar which
is very likely to be more than any of
you in the audience care
no offense i've been there i've done
humanitarian work i did years of
research
i've read very large heavy history books
about these countries
i care right i care
but it's a certain kind of detached
distant scholarly academic care i've got
right i'm not volunteering to fight in
myanmar's
civil war are you
when those people leave myanmar and they
come to canada
when those people leave myanmar they
come to thailand
they will care much less about building
a positive future
in canada or in thailand than they did
about their own country
right they won't have that kind of
commitment
that kind of passion this is one of the
most tragic things
about all immigration including refugee
policy
right is that the level of civic
engagement
the level of democratic and political
commitment
to building a better and brighter future
in your destination country it's much
much less
than it was in your host country i have
fans of this channel of all ages
right some of you are teenagers some of
you are in your
40s 50s and 60s
right now if you were offered an israeli
passport
and a new life in israel
would you continue to speak english as
your first language
would you continue to watch the news and
talk about politics and english
would you continue to care about
politics in the united states
western europe and just be someone who
happens to live in israel
or would you really commit yourself to
becoming completely fluent in hebrew
settling down permanently making that
your newspaper making that your set of
humanitarian political
concerns if that's too hard to imagine
we can replace israel with italy
or greece have you looked at learning
modern greek huge sacrifice
would you just retire to greece
as an english-speaking outsider continue
reading the newspaper in english
right or would you get seriously
committed would you actually join a
political party in greece
would you become an activist deeply
concerned with
what's currently unfolding in the future
of greece ask yourself that honestly
i say this as someone who has within
just the last couple of years had on my
desk stacked up
introduction to the hebrew language
hebrew dictionary
introduction to modern greek the greek
language among the languages i've
studied just in the last couple years
and the places i've considered living
it's not just thailand it's not just
laos and cambodia right
greece and israel in very different ways
and different reasons those were options
for me i had to think about
but i would probably have as little
engagement
as the vast majority of pakistani
immigrants to canada
of chinese immigrants again i've met and
spoken to huge numbers of chinese people
in canada
in toronto in saskatchewan here in bc
all right they all still care about
politics in china
the people who came here from taiwan
they still care about politics in taiwan
they still read the newspaper from
taiwan
they don't care about politics in canada
they're not fighting
for a better future in canada right
and if you had this kind of mass
migration phenomenon
in asia right it wouldn't be good for
thailand
it wouldn't be good for many of the
donor countries the countries people are
escaping from shall we say okay
what is immigration
good for if you want to have better
health care
you have to build the institutions for
high quality
health care not here not there but
everywhere we can do it
okay if you want to have a brighter
future in terms of human rights
and democracy you do not want to
encourage
a cultural and political situation in
which people just
shop around to relocate to the country
that will give them the highest quality
of life
and the highest quality of government at
the lowest tax rate
we need to build the fundamental
requirements for democracy
here there and everywhere
myanmar civil war is a great example
it's unfolding right now whatever you
think
the solution to the problem in myanmar
might be
whatever you think the solution the
problem in syria
or afghanistan might be it
cannot possibly be exporting
the percentage of their population that
is dissatisfied
with the status quo we have to harness
the powerful positive motivation of that
dissatisfied minority
to transform the future of each one of
those countries
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
i yes